# Hike New England: CS50 Final 2022
#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/x7B65BOGUzE>
#### Description: A Webapp To Log Hikes

My project is a webapp built with Flask, SQLite, Bootstrap and Jinja. This webapp allows users to create an account where they can log any hike they have completed in a blog format or keep track of which of the 67 4000+ foot mountains in New England they have hiked. 

My Flask application contains a static folder with the frontend logic. The static folder contains templates, written with Jinja templating and html, and a css styles page with some specific styles. Most of the styling uses Bootstrap 5.  My app has the following html pages: layout, home, index, register, login, logout, loghike, viewlog, list4000fters, and log4000fter. I choose to have a separate page for users to be able to keep a blog style log of any hike they would like to track and a table of the 4000+ foot mountains in New England. Initially I attempted to combine the form to log a 4000 footer and the table of 4000 footers on one page, but choose to separate them for consistency in design with the other pages of the webapp.  

The backend of the website is built using python and SQLite in the following files: app.py, helpers.py, webforms.py, init_db.py, env.py, schema.sql and creds.py(hidden with gitignore). The app.py file contains the logic for all the app configuration, routes, connection to the database, and classes for Users and HikeLog. The helpers.py file contains a function to convert a cursor object from a SGL query into a list of dictionaries and a login required decorator function. The webforms.py file contains class information for the login, registration, and hike log forms build with WTForms. I choose to have these forms in their own file for a cleaner design. 

The application uses a SQLite database with 4 tables: users, 4000_footers, hikelog, and log4000. The users table is created at registration and contains a unique id, the time the account was created, the username and a hash of the user's password. The 4000_footers table was constructed from a CSV file containing information about the 67 4000+ foot mountains in New England. The hikelog and log4000 tables use the user's id as a foreign key to keep user's information connected to their session after login. The log4000 table has a rank_mtn column that connects to the Rank column in the 4000_footers table, allowing the user's unique log to connect to the table of 4000 footers with the date of their hike.
